have you ever opened up blender spend
three hours turning this goddamn cube
into a player character just for it to
turn out into this
unholy creation
well
then you're in luck
today you're gonna get expert help from
a pro game developer who so far has
released one game and made four bucks
for me
yeah that's right
hi
i'm jens and i'm gonna show you the
methods i use for creating my 3d models
in blender hold on tight because this is
going to be a bumpy ride
so how does one make a 3d model from
start to finish
huh
well it usually involves jumping over
five major hurdles
in blender we always start with hurdle
number one
it's the easiest to get past but it is
very essential deleting the default cube
this step is very important so just
throw it out like it's that disgusting
corner piece of a loaf of a bread that
no one wants
and move on to step two modeling this is
the process where you turn this new cube
into something that resembles an actual
object
this to this
step three
uv unwrapping
so uh you know uv unwrapping is like the
most boring thing you can come across
nonetheless it is very important if you
don't want your model to have this gray
old color forever
it's the process by which you cut your
object into pieces so that its surface
can be represented on a 2d plane when it
is done we move on to step number four
texturing it's basically the step of
adding colors and textures to your model
using 2d images who would have thought
huh
finally step number six exporting
meaning you're basically done
it's done
this is not really a step at all if you
think about it or is it hmm
anyways let's get on with showing you
how i actually do all of this so to
demonstrate this i'm going to create
this scene that i might use for a future
game i'm making
okay so i won't show you step by step
how to make every single model here but
instead i'll be showing you some useful
tools and shortcuts that you can use to
create any set of models and do it
quickly as well so
open up blender
and do step number one
[Music]
well before starting i'm actually going
to show all the noobs out there the
basics of blender
just skip this part if you already know
it
so look around your viewport by holding
the mouse wheel down scroll in and out
to zoom and this here is the default
blender scene that we see
it has a camera light and the
cube we hate it so delete it all you can
do this by selecting it by either
pressing b and drag a selection square
with the left mouse button or press c
and select everything you can also
select individual objects by pressing
right click on them are you sure about
that
so
i'm a old school blender user you
probably need to press left click
actually in this case
to delete the selected objects just
press x create a new cube or any other
object by pressing shift a and select
whatever you want
important to note that right now we're
in object mode here we only handle
objects
the actual modeling is done in the edit
mode the basics of working with models
is selecting vertices edges or faces and
then you transform them by grabbing
rotating or scaling them also the most
useful shortcuts that i use is e to
extrude i to inset ctrl r to make a loop
cut and d to duplicate and then there's
a hundred more things that you might
need to learn but you'll get there
eventually probably
anyways
on with the video
so how do we make a house then first of
all we need to decide on a type of style
for our game as a wise man once said it
is wise to make blue police style stuff
if you're working alone or in a small
team
and why why is this well cause fast
low poly just means that the number of
triangles in a model is kept low as long
as you keep this number consistent
between models the overall game will
look good actually
so when it comes to making a house it is
usually a good idea to make something
that you can reuse in the same game
multiple times over this is where making
modular pieces come in handy
essentially if you want to make a town
in a game making 20 different looking
house models would take forever
instead you just make the parts that
make a house walls floors roofs and once
you have all of these pieces you can
easily and quickly assemble any number
of different houses of different sizes
and looks
damn that's some fast building okay but
how
how do
how do you go about making modular
pieces then
it's pretty good question we mainly need
to think about two things
firstly the edges of each piece must
align with the grid so that when you put
a new piece next to it they will snap
together perfectly
nice
to do this you need to use snapping when
modeling the second most important thing
here is that the origin of the object
must sit aligned at the grid as well i
usually put the origin at the foot of
the object
so to make modular low poly wall simply
create a cube
move the model so the origin is aligned
at the bottom and scale it in the y axis
and
first piece done yeah
i also added a slight edge to the bottom
for some detail but you can do whatever
fits your project
most importantly here name your piece so
you know what is what then you make a
duplicate and make some corner pieces by
chopping the wall in half duplicate it
and rotate it into place then move the
vertices of one of the walls into
position and merge with the other
vertices one by one
then you can make a window by using some
loop cuts
punch a hole in this bad boy and fill in
the edges by bridging them then you can
just add a window frame by duplicating
this inner loop here
extrude the loop then scale it by the x
and z axis and scale the entire frame by
the y axis
like this
just add the glass part by duplicating
one of the edge loops and fill it in and
move it into place boom
windows
no not that type you can do the same
thing that you did with the window to
create a door piece
just remember to leave the hole open and
model the door separately if you want it
to open in game now is probably a good
idea to export your objects though
just to see that there's nothing wonky
going on with the models and make sure
that they all align in game like uh
don't do the mistake i did where
everything looked even perfect in
blender when i modeled this huge ass
mansion then when i put it in unreal it
looked like this garbage
simply export your models by moving the
origins to the center of the scene
and export them as fbx files now what do
these settings do
don't worry about it
just click click these two options and
you're good now in your engine of choice
i use unreal engine just import and
build your house
and make sure everything snaps together
most importantly make sure that it
doesn't look weird if you see any of the
insides of your models that means the
normals are flipped the wrong way
to solve this just go back into blender
select everything
and uh calculate the outside
now you might be wondering why am i not
subbed to this douchebag yet no worries
just go ahead and click that stinky
looking shabari sub button down
please as you can see here we do
actually have a slight issue so this is
what happens when vases perfectly
overlap each other meaning they compete
about which one will be rendered first
but how do we fix this eh well
there are two very simple solutions to
this actually either you just schlapp
something on top of it
look
no flicker
gun didn't ever exist the second option
is to
adjust the height of one of the pieces
slightly in my case i have separated
inner walls from outer walls what i did
was just lowering the inner walls a
slight bit
easy pc
now keep in mind that it might be a good
idea to have different size modular
pieces or you will be very limited in
your level design
in my case i made three separate size
floors these are essentially just boxes
with incrementally bigger sizes
but now we have one problem this house
and its surroundings is looking pretty
empty
need to fill it up with stuff plants
tables
bed toilet poop
but how do we make these assets then
reference yeah that's right no one
actually remembers exactly what an
elephant looks like
just look at games similar to yours and
use those as references it doesn't need
to be realistic unless your game has
realistic graphics in which case
it's going to take you a long time to
make a game so
don't do that if you make it alone or in
a small team
like for the kitchen here you need some
cabinetry
look here it's just a box with an edge
and three more boxes and some handles
just use the tools i showed earlier
handles are just donuts cut in half
a fridge on the other hand is
essentially also just a box but with a
slight curve
a little trick here is to use the
subdivision modifier
add some edge loops and that way you
very quickly get an old-school fridge
just insert holes by the door and add a
box to make the handles boom bridge
ooh
you know
it's a rich code
here's another very useful modifier that
i used when making this oven for example
it's the array modifier
basically it just adds copies of the
object next to it i did this for the
heat regulators here which
if you want to know how to make those
it's just a cylinder with a box through
them
easy however probably the modifier i
used the most
is the mirror modifier
as you might know
many objects are symmetrical which means
that you only need to model one side at
a time
just make sure that the origin is in the
middle of the object then delete half of
the model and add the modifier
wow
look you just saved half of your time
ok we have some stuff for the house but
we need some greenery you know trees can
be made very easily if you do low poly
trees
easiest way to make a stylus tree would
just be to create a uv sphere scale it
in the set direction and use
proportional editing to deform it
slightly proportional what is that well
it's just a way of editing where you
affect more than what you have selected
as you can see everything in this ring
here will also be affected
so just move it around until it fits
what you want okay so if you're into
this whole low poly look you can just
leave the tree like this
i personally don't like it by smooth i
do this with all curved surfaces for
example
if you have a cylinder like a wheel just
select the ring
and smooth the faces
this way the flat part stays flat but
the
curved part comes smooth
okay so
making a tree like this one is also
super simple actually
all you need to do is create an ico
sphere
and then select the bottom half and
delete
adjust position of the tip slightly so
it doesn't look perfect and adjust shape
with the proportional editing again
it is very important that you are aware
that only one side of the faces are
actually rendered in your game engine
the other side will be transparent so if
you're making a game where you'll see
the tree from below
we'll need to do something about it
in unreal engine there's a simple option
in material settings to render both
sides
though that's easy for you but if you're
using unity
then you're screwed there is no option
for that but you can't solve this in two
ways though
first is just to make something on the
inside that covers up these inside faces
it'll probably look kind of weird with
the holosphere anyways
but if you do want it to look like that
another simple solution would just be to
duplicate all the faces and then you
just flip the normals this way both
sides are going to be rendered the
problem with this method is that you
will double the triangle count which
could affect performance but in the case
of low poly models this is usually not
going to be a problem
so
don't
worry it
but now i'm gonna show you how to model
this
enough with the modeling already i
let's throw some color on these bad boys
instead
before showing you the uv unwrapping
though
i'm just gonna explain the two methods i
use for texturing
the first one is the easiest i recommend
using this if you're a total noob
actually i also recommend it if you're
not a noob it just use it all right it's
very great it is using a color atlas
texture with gradients like this one
this here allows you to color any object
with minimal effort using only one
texture the use of the gradient here
also allows you to color the objects
more interestingly for example you can
make flowers with varying colors without
needing to paint them at all
or glance with lighter and darker green
parts
it's all just very easy and convenient i
promise and to create your own texture
like this it's very easy you can do this
in
just create a new square image add a
checkerboard pattern and increase size
the amount of colors you need if you
need more than this consider using a
larger image size
add the colors in every other column and
add them in an order that makes sense
for the acids you make
like my image here
one row is made going from yellow to
lighter greens to increasingly bluer and
darker greens which i want for most of
my plant acids make the gradient just
shift select the next column with the
wand tool and drag a gradient from the
first row to the last row
change the colors of the ends to the
colors next to it and then do this with
all the colors by selecting a new point
on the gradient line next to each color
then you just do the same with the rest
of the image and
you have a texture now that you can use
for every object you want we do have a
problem now though how do we get this to
turn into this well first
set up the material in blender by
heading over to the shading tab create a
new material and add an image texture
node and open up your texture
actually color your objects with this
method you barely need to worry about
the uv in wrapping actually
uv unwrapping sucks
just go over to this uv editing tab and
resize the unwrap to fit one of the
boxes
done the box is now blue
if you want to color different parts of
the same object simply select those
faces and move to another color
nice
using the gradient part is a bit
different but it's still easy just view
the object from the direction you want
the gradient to go and press u object
from u then you just scale it and move
it in place of the gradient
i use this for things like plants and
flowers and even some objects when i
want a more interesting look for example
a fence that needs to be darker on the
bottom
okay
that's all good
but what do we do if we want something
more interesting looking
like maybe you don't want the whole
house just to be a solid red
and this is where the second method i
use comes in
the second method is using seamless
textures meaning each side of the
texture can be matched up with another
side
i mostly use this for the modular assets
where i want some patterns like a brick
wall or tiled floor
since i'm going for a stylist approach
using very flat seamless textures is
appropriate and creating that style of
texture takes no time at all compared to
creating realistic looking textures
but uh
how do we make these then
well i got the thing just for you
substance designer make any type of
texture for only 40 bucks a month
[Music]
yeah
that i found this free software called
material maker and you can create some
really cool stuff with it there's even a
big library of materials you can use for
a bunch of projects
and to make some flat materials with it
you only need to use five
you need the pattern a step node to
separate the brick from the grout
a colorized node to randomize the color
and then a uniform node to color the
grout and then you just need a blend
node to blend it all together voila a
seamless procedural texture
the uvm wrap using this texture is a bit
more work but it's still very simple it
is just very important that you get the
perfect lineups with the edges if you're
making your modular parts for the walls
you select the faces in the front
direction only
watch the object in the front view and
project from view with bounce
now it will cover up the texture
perfectly
for the sides and the top you just make
a simple unwrap one side at a time
move the unwrap part in only one axis so
that it aligns
uh just play around with this for a
while sometimes you might want to adjust
the scale in the one of the directions
just to get it looking a little bit
better
would you look at that a brick wall in
like 30 seconds well the rest of the
wall i used atlas textures so it is a
combination of the two methods i showed
to have this you just need to have two
materials and then you assign the faces
that you need to the specific material
if you want to do the same thing for
your models
the only thing that i have not covered
here is the use of light map textures
because you see the way we use these
methods the light mapping knob might not
work out well
the only thing you need to do here is to
make a separate uv channel
and then you just generate the lighten
that texture for that uv
and then use that in your game engine of
choice
yeah for the scene that i made in unreal
engine 5 i don't need to bake any lights
so i have not done that sorry but yeah
combining all of these methods i created
this exact scene right here and i hope
you can get started with doing the same
for your game
but if you like the video consider
giving me a sub and maybe liking it you
know very nice if you want to see how i
made a game with this same methods just
check this video out
bye